#In this SQL, I'm creating a table and querying it to insert data into the table,and retrieving data from a table. 

--Create a bookstore database

CREATE TABLE books (id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY, title text, Author TEXT, summary TEXT,rating INTEGER,price DECIMAL);

/*Ratings are out of 5; 5 being the highest possible rating*/

--Insert data into the table named 'books'

INSERT INTO books VALUES(1,'A Heart That Works','Rob Delaney','In this memoir of loss, acclaimed writer and comedian Rob Delaney grapples with the fragile miracle of life, the mysteries of death, and the question of purpose for those left behind.',4,20.99);

INSERT INTO books VALUES(2,'Afterlives','Abdulrazak Gurnah','After years away, fighting against his own people, he returns home to find his parents gone and his sister, Afiya, abandoned into de facto slavery. Hamza, too, returns home from the war, scarred in body and soul and with nothing but the clothes on his back–until he meets the beautiful, undaunted Afiya.',3,20.25);

INSERT INTO books VALUES(3,'Anna: The Biography','Amy Odell','Weaving Annas personal story into a larger narrative about the hierarchical dynamics of the fashion industry and the complex world of Condé Nast, Anna charts the relentless ambition of the woman who would become an icon.',4,17.05);

INSERT INTO books VALUES(4,'Babel:Or the Necessity of Violence: An Arcane History of the Oxford Translators Revolution','R.F. Kuang','It is 1833 in Canton, China (present-day Guangzhou). Richard Lovell, an important official in the British Empire, retrieves a little boy from the room where his mother and family died of cholera. The boy is also ill, but Lovell heals him using the magic of translation. No translation is exact; the mismatch between a word and the English translation creates magic that is stored in silver bars. Lovell and silversmiths like him use these bars to do magic like healing a sick person. Lovell strips the boy of his Cantonese identity by having him create an English name—Robin Swift—and taking him away from his homeland. ',4,15.99);

INSERT INTO books VALUES(5,'Bitter Orange Tree','Jokha Alharthi','A Bedouin horsemans daughter, born soon after World War I and cast out as a young teenager, supports herself through the filthy work of making charcoal. Taken in by a relative, she raises generations of the family, sustaining them through bouts of madness and despair.',4,25.48);

INSERT INTO books VALUES(6,'Breathless','David Quammen','Breathless is the story of SARS-CoV-2 and its fierce journey through the human population, as seen by the scientists who study its origin, its ever-changing nature, and its capacity to kill us. David Quammen expertly shows how strange new viruses emerge from animals into humans as we disrupt wild ecosystems, and how those viruses adapt to their human hosts, sometimes causing global catastrophe. He explains why this coronavirus will probably be a "forever virus," destined to circulate among humans and bedevil us endlessly, in one variant form or another. As scientists labor to catch it, comprehend it, and control it, with their high-tech tools and methods, the virus finds ways of escape.',4,20.19);

INSERT INTO books VALUES(7,'Butts: A Backstory','Heather Radke','Part deep dive reportage, part personal journey, part cabinet of curiosities, Butts is an entertaining, illuminating, and thoughtful examination of why certain silhouettes come in and out of fashion—and how larger ideas about race, control, liberation, and power affect our most private feelings about ourselves',4,20.49);

INSERT INTO books VALUES(8,'Calling for a Blanket Dance','Oscar Hokeah',' A profound reflection on the intergenerational nature of cultural trauma. Hokeahs characters exist at the intersection of Kiowa, Cherokee and Mexican identity, which provides a vital exploration of indigeneity in contemporary American letters.',4,23.66);

INSERT INTO books VALUES(9,'The Candy House','Jennifer Egan','The Candy House opens with the staggeringly brilliant Bix Bouton, whose company, Mandala, is so successful that he is "one of those tech demi-gods with whom were all on a first name basis." Bix is 40, with four kids, restless, desperate for a new idea, when he stumbles into a conversation group, mostly Columbia professors, one of whom is experimenting with downloading or "externalizing" memory. Its 2010. Within a decade, Bixs new technology, "Own Your Unconscious —that allows you access to every memory youve ever had, and to share every memory in exchange for access to the memories of others—has seduced multitudes. But not everyone.',4,21.33);

INSERT INTO books VALUES(10,'Carrie Soto Is Back','Taylor Jenkins Reid','Soto decides to leave retirement which she announced in 1989 to re-enter professional competitions in an effort to defend her record. The plot moves back in time to follow Sotos first rise to the top, and then we come along on her grueling training as she attempts to defend her title six years later.',4,17.95);

INSERT INTO books VALUES(11,'Chefs Kiss',' TJ Alexander','A high-strung pastry chefs professional goals are interrupted by an unexpected career transition and the introduction of her wildly attractive nonbinary kitchen manager in this deliciously fresh and witty queer rom-com.',4,12.77);

INSERT INTO books VALUES(12,'Civil Rights Queen:Constance Baker Motley and the Struggle for Equality','Tomiko Brown-Nagin ','Born to an aspirational blue-collar family during the Great Depression, Constance Baker Motley was expected to find herself a good career as a hair dresser. Instead, she became the first black woman to argue a case in front of the Supreme Court, the first of ten she would eventually argue.',4,16.99);

INSERT INTO books VALUES(13,'Constructing a Nervous System:A Memoir','Margo Jefferson','In Constructing a Nervous System, Jefferson shatters her self into pieces and recombines them into a new and vital apparatus on the page, fusing the criticism that she is known for, fragments of the family members she grieves for, and signal moments from her life, as well as the words of those who have peopled her past.',4,15.99);

INSERT INTO books VALUES(14,'Cover Story:A Novel','Susan Rigetti','An unsophisticated intern at a fashion magazine fears her new, wealthy mentor may be a con artist. Rigettis entertaining first novel lays out how easily a grifter can take advantage of the system—and the naïve.',4,15.39);

INSERT INTO books VALUES(15,'The Crane Wife:A Memoir in Essays','CJ Hauser','A Searching Quest To Figure Out Why We Crave Neat, Happy Endings. In her stunning and interrogative memoir-in-essays, Hauser sets off on a mission of self-discovery. What would it mean to shed the desire for a life we do not lead? That we may not even truly want, if we are honest?',4,18.69);

--display the database ordered by rating. 

SELECT * FROM books

ORDER BY rating DESC;

--What is the average price?

SELECT AVG(price) 

AS Average_Price

FROM books;

--What book has the highest price?

SELECT title,MAX(price) 

AS Highest_price

FROM books;

--What author has the cheapest price?

SELECT author,MIN(price) 

AS Cheapest_Price

FROM books;

--What book titles have an author whose names start with the letter T?

SELECT title,author FROM books

WHERE author LIKE 'T%';

--How many books received a rating of 3?

SELECT COUNT(title) 

AS QuantityOfBooks

FROM books

WHERE rating = 3;

--Which books have titles ending with 's', have a rating of 4, and are priced higher than $15?

SELECT title,author,rating,price

FROM books

WHERE title LIKE '%s'

AND rating = 4

AND price >15;

--Which books have titles and authors that match the criteria of having the word 'life' mentioned in their summaries?

SELECT title,author

FROM books

WHERE summary LIKE '%life%';
